README.md, before:

# fixed-slice-vec

`FixedSliceVec` is a dynamic length Vec with runtime-determined maximum capacity backed by a slice.

### Overview

This library is focused on meeting the following, narrow use case:
* **`no_std`** : Rust programming without the std library.
* **No global allocator**: No access to the `alloc` crate
* **Runtime capacity** : Maximum possible items in a collection or maximum
possible backing bytes of storage is unknown until runtime.

### Getting Started

`fixed-slice-vec` is a Rust library, built and tested via Cargo. It
has no dependencies outside of the Rust core library.

To add `fixed-slice-vec` to your Rust project, add a dependency to it
in your Cargo.toml file.

```toml
fixed-slice-vec = "0.3"
```

### Usage

#### FixedSliceVec

In your Rust project source code, you can create a FixedSliceVec a number of
ways (see the project Rust API docs for details).
The most common form of construction is from a slice of bare bytes.

```rust
use fixed_slice_vec::FixedSliceVec;
let mut bytes = [0u8; 1024];
let byte_slice = &mut bytes[..512];
let mut vec: FixedSliceVec<f64> = FixedSliceVec::from_bytes(byte_slice);

assert_eq!(0, vec.len());
assert!(vec.capacity() >= 63, "The exact capacity will depend on source-slice alignment");

vec.try_push(2.7f64).expect("Ran out of capacity unexpectedly");
assert_eq!(1, vec.len());

vec.clear();
assert!(vec.is_empty());
```

#### single module

As a companion to `FixedSliceVec`, the `single` submodule provides
functions for working with individual Rust values backed by arbitrary
byte slices. See the API Docs for details and examples.

#### Comparison

Several other `Vec`-like crates exist and should be considered
as possible alternatives to `FixedSliceVec`.

* The standard library's [Vec](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/vec/struct.Vec.html)
has a runtime dynamic capacity backed by an allocator. This should probably
be your first choice if you have access to an allocator.
* [ArrayVec](https://crates.io/crates/arrayvec) has a compile-time
fixed capacity. It is widely used and available on stable.
* [StaticVec](https://crates.io/crates/staticvec) has a compile-time
fixed capacity. It uses recent const generic features and is currently
nightly-only.
* [SliceVec](https://crates.io/crates/slicevec) has runtime fixed capacity.
This is the closest in its target use case to `FixedSliceVec`. We
only discovered it existed after developing `FixedSliceVec`, so there's some
evidence of convergent design or needs. It appears largely
unmaintained over the last few years, and does not make use of the
[MaybeUninit](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/mem/union.MaybeUninit.html)
pattern for handling uninitialized data in Rust. Presently it supports a few
more of the convenience methods available in standard `Vec` than
`FixedSliceVec`. It does not support creating an instance from raw bytes.


### License

Copyright 2020 Auxon Corporation, released under the [Apache 2.0 license](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Fill out more of Vec-like interface, with tests

README.md, after:

# fixed-slice-vec

`FixedSliceVec` is a dynamic length Vec with runtime-determined maximum capacity backed by a slice.

### Overview

This library is focused on meeting the following, narrow use case:
* **`no_std`** : Rust programming without the std library.
* **No global allocator**: No access to the `alloc` crate
* **Runtime capacity** : Maximum possible items in a collection or maximum
possible backing bytes of storage is unknown until runtime.

### Getting Started

`fixed-slice-vec` is a Rust library, built and tested via Cargo. It
has no dependencies outside of the Rust core library.

To add `fixed-slice-vec` to your Rust project, add a dependency to it
in your Cargo.toml file.

```toml
fixed-slice-vec = "0.3"
```

### Usage

#### FixedSliceVec

In your Rust project source code, you can create a FixedSliceVec a number of
ways (see the project Rust API docs for details).
The most common form of construction is from a slice of bare bytes.

```rust
use fixed_slice_vec::FixedSliceVec;
let mut bytes = [0u8; 1024];
let byte_slice = &mut bytes[..512];
let mut vec: FixedSliceVec<f64> = FixedSliceVec::from_bytes(byte_slice);

assert_eq!(0, vec.len());
assert!(vec.capacity() >= 63, "The exact capacity will depend on source-slice alignment");

vec.try_push(2.7f64).expect("Ran out of capacity unexpectedly");
assert_eq!(1, vec.len());

vec.clear();
assert!(vec.is_empty());
```

#### single module

As a companion to `FixedSliceVec`, the `single` submodule provides
functions for working with individual Rust values backed by arbitrary
byte slices. See the API Docs for details and examples.

#### Comparison

Several other `Vec`-like crates exist and should be considered
as possible alternatives to `FixedSliceVec`.

* The standard library's [Vec](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/vec/struct.Vec.html)
has a runtime dynamic capacity backed by an allocator. This should probably
be your first choice if you have access to an allocator.
* [ArrayVec](https://crates.io/crates/arrayvec) has a compile-time
fixed capacity. It is widely used and available on stable.
* [StaticVec](https://crates.io/crates/staticvec) has a compile-time
fixed capacity. It uses recent const generic features and is currently
nightly-only.
* [SliceVec](https://crates.io/crates/slicevec) has runtime fixed capacity.
This is the closest in its target use case to `FixedSliceVec`. We
only discovered it existed after developing `FixedSliceVec`, so there's some
evidence of convergent design or needs. It appears largely
unmaintained over the last few years, does not make use of the
[MaybeUninit](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/mem/union.MaybeUninit.html)
pattern for handling uninitialized data in Rust, and does not drop items
correctly in some cases. It does not support creating an instance from raw bytes
and requires `Default` elements for some operations.


### License

Copyright 2020 Auxon Corporation, released under the [Apache 2.0 license](./LICENSE).
